ROBUST STEERING AND DIFFERENTIAL BRAKING CONTROL FOR AUTOMATED 
GUIDANCE OF TRACTOR­SEMITRAILER COMBINATION VEHICLES 
Jeng­Yu Wang  
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
University of California at Berkeley 
Berkeley, California 94720­1740 
Email: jengyu@newton.berkeley.edu 
Masayoshi Tomizuka 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
University of California at Berkeley 
Berkeley, California 94720­1740 
Email: tomizuka@me.berkeley.edu 
ABSTRACT 
In this paper, a robust linear steering and differential brak­ 
ing controller is designed for the automated guidance of tractor­ 
semitrailer combination vehicles using the H¥ loop shaping 
methodology. Only the articulation angle, the lateral errors at 
the front and rear axle of the tractor, and the angular velocity of 
the rear wheel of the trailer or the brake line pressure signals, are 
assumed to be available for the synthesis of control inputs. The 
controller is designed to ensure robustness to model uncertainties 
due to the variations of vehicle longitudinal speeds, road adhe­ 
sion coefficients and trailer cargo loads. Closed­loop simulation 
results show the robustness of the proposed controller and the re­ 
sulting smaller lateral error at the trailer end when compared to 
the controller using the steering input only. 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Automated guidance of heavy vehicles has been an active 
research topic on automated highway systems for the past few 
years. Automated guidance will reduce the operating cost sub­ 
stantially and have a significant impact on the overall safety of 
highways. Analyses of the dynamic system response reveal that 
varying vehicle longitudinal speed, tire cornering force and cargo 
loads dramatically change the system dynamics (from the steer­ 
ing input to the lateral acceleration) in different frequency ranges 
(Wand and Tomizuka, 1998). Robustness to these model uncer­ 
tainties is considered an important issue in the design of lateral 
controllers. Some robust controllers have been shown to be ef­ 
fective (see for example, Wand and Tomizuka (1999), Mammar 
(1999), and Hingwe et al. (2000)). Experimental validations 
can be found in Wand and Tomizuka (1999) and Hingwe et al. 
 Address all correspondence to this author. 
(2000). In the previous works, the steering angle of the front 
wheel of the tractor was the only control input. Another possible 
control input is the differential braking force to the rear wheels 
of the trailer, which may generate a torque for directly control­ 
ling the yaw motion of the trailer. It may effectively deal with the 
yaw instability of the trailer such as fish­tailing. Coordinated s­ 
teering and braking control for the heavy vehicles in the automat­ 
ed highway system was first introduced in Chen and Tomizuka 
(1995), where the input­output linearization and back­stepping 
control methodologies were applied. In this approach, the model 
uncertainties are not directly considered. Furthermore, all ve­ 
hicle state variables are required to implement the controller in 
Chen and Tomizuka (1995), which may make the approach im­ 
practical depending on the availability of sensors and presence 
of measurement noises. 
This paper extends the work in Wand and Tomizuka (1999) 
to take advantage of the two control inputs in the H¥ loop­ 
shaping control design. Only the articulation angle, the lateral 
errors of the front and rear axle of the tractor, and the angular 
velocity of the rear wheel of the trailer or the brake line pressure 
signals, are assumed to be available for the synthesis of control 
inputs. In actual implementation, the lateral errors can be ob­ 
tained from two magnetometers, each located at the front and 
rear ends of the tractor. The articulation angle can be obtained 
from a string gauge on the fifth wheel. Another advantage of the 
proposed H¥ loop­shaping controller is that it has an observer 
structure with gains that can be tuned for different longitudinal 
vehicle speeds, making it suitable for gain­scheduling (Wang and 
Tomizuka, 2000). Simulation results show that the lateral error 
of the trailer rear end by the proposed controller is smaller than 
the one by steering control only. 
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Sec­ 
tion 2, a linearized vehicle control model is presented with dis­ 

