The New York Times (Friday, September 6, 1996, page B21)

TV SPORTS/Richard Sandomir

Cultural Views: Differing Outlooks

  Has Bob Costas, who was host of the Summer Olympics for NBC, poisoned
the Olympic spirit, as an advertisement in last Sundays New York Times
charged?  Is he biased against Chinese athletes? 

  Chinese student groups that raised $21,000 for the ad say Costas singled
out Chinese Olympians for criticism about performance-enhancing drug use
and wanted an apology that Costas says he will not offer. 

  Welcome again to the ethnically charged, politically correct battles in
public utterances are micromanaged, and even minute dissections of Walter
Cronkites broadcasts and eyebrow movements would probably yield bias.  It
is hard to say anything without offending someone, somewhere.  Onetime
throwaway lines by politicians now turn into verbal grenades.  When CBSs
Ben Wright took his views on lesbianism on the womens golf tour from the
hotel bar to the newspapers, he was crucified.  Yet the brash Nike empire
uses ethnicity to gain market share by using the golfer Tiger Woodss
African-American roots, which he rarely emphasizes over his Asian
heritage, for a commercial campaign that has him bragging of his readiness
for the lily-white world that isnt ready for him. 

*		*		*		*		*

  NBC thought it had settled the Chinese issue last month in a letter to a
student group in Berkeley, Calif., which voiced regret for hurt feelings
but did not offer an apology for the content of Costass remarks about
Chinese human rights violations and drug use by Chinese track athletes and
female swimmers.  The letter was written by Ed Markey, an NBC Sports
spokesman, not Costas. 

  He showed an inhospitable attitude which was improper, said Zheng Wang,
a computer science student at Harvard who represents a coalition of
Chinese that paid for last Sundays ad and is allied with the Berkeley
group.  Even if his remarks to him were factual, it doesnt mean he
shouldnt apologize.  There is tone and nuance, and facts can be used to
intentionally distort images. 

  In a letter to Markey sent Monday, Lee Zheng [correction: Lee Zhang],
another member of the protest group, wrote, We believe it is in the best
interests of NBC to take disciplinary action against Mr. Costas. He said
that NBCs qualifications to broadcast future Olympics should be
questioned.  Markey had no comment yesterday, and Costas was unavailable
for comment. 

  It is simple to say that Costas meant no harm, which he surely did not,
and that the Chinese groups are hypersensitive, which they may be.  To
Costas, focusing on China and its record was appropriate during the
opening ceremony where he alternated serious and light comments. 

  To the students, any mention of alleged Chinese drug use apparently
required equivalent citation of every other teams use.  As evidence of
Costass view, Zheng, the Harvard student, said he cited suspicions about
drug use by Liu Limin, the silver medalist in the 100-meter butterfly, but
not past drug use by Angel Martino, the bronze medalist. 

  I dont know where he got his suspicions from, Zheng said.

  There is a lot of hair-splitting here.  Zheng admits that China has a
record of human rights violation and performance-enhancing drug use by
Chinese athletes, which Costas discussed.  Then there are those nuances
again.  Yet those nuances, or the vigilance of some ethnically sensitive
groups, should not necessarily be ignored: often, they provide much-needed
understanding of cultures unfamiliar to us.  Better to learn this way than
from hearing racial inanities from Al Campanis of Jimmy (the Greek) 
Snyder. 

  How can you be sure of anyones so-called prejudices without watching all
171 hours of NBCs coverage and filtering through an unbiased video
strainer? 

*		*		*		*		*


  These verbal conflicts bespeak different cultural views: Zheng said the
opening ceremony is no place to speak ill, but a grand celebration of
world unity.  NBC viewed it grandly, but in entertainment terms. 

  People have a Rashomon perspective, their own truths, their own
references.  What is gospel to one person is bias to the aggrieved. 

  Sensitive to NBCs perceived slights, the Chinese students were surely
unhappy to see Costas take this issue up with Jay Leno, where, after a
serious discussion and a vow not to apologize, the debate became a brief
cause for jocularity. 

(The end of report)
