3 articles by Associated Press (AP) (all on 8-22-96):

---title: NBC Apologizes to China--

NEW YORK (AP) -- An NBC sports official apologized for hurting the
feelings of Chinese groups upset that Bob Costas mentioned China's human
rights problems and other issues during the opening ceremony of the
Olympics. 

Ed Markey, an NBC Sports vice president, said in a brief letter of
apology, ``Mr. Costas did not intend any disrespect to the People's
Republic of China or its citizens.'' 

``We apologize for any resulting hurt feelings,'' said the letter, a
response to Chen Kai, a representative of Chinese and Chinese-American
groups which wrote to NBC and published ads in U.S. newspapers to protest. 

China's state-run media and Foreign Ministry officials assailed Costas for
remarks he made during the July 19 opening ceremony. According to a
transcript provided today by NBC, Costas said, ``Every economic power
including the United States wants to tap into that huge potential market,
but of course there are problems with human rights, property rights
disputes, the threat posed to Taiwan.'' 

He went on to mention their athletic achievements -- and suspicions that
performance-enhancing drugs are behind some of them. 

Markey's letter said ``the comments were not based on NBC beliefs.'' But
he said today that his letter was meant to atone only for hurt feelings,
not misstatements. 

The letter ``does not address NBC's position (on China). The letter
doesn't address the content of what we said,'' Markey said. 

``We were advised that the comments hurt their feelings,'' Markey said.
``And we wanted to make it clear that we didn't intend to hurt their
feelings and we apologize if that in fact was the case.'' 

Costas is on vacation and unavailable for comment, Markey said. 

In Beijing, the apology appeared to have done little to mollify those
offended by Costas' comments, which were widely perceived in China as
openly anti-Chinese. 

``Any news agency in the world should respect and comply with the most
fundamental professional ethics and not produce reports which distort
facts,'' the Foreign Ministry said. 

``It is hoped that NBC will draw lessons and make sure that there will be
no recurrence of things like that.'' 

Chen complained the apology was not made in public and not made by Costas
himself. 

``It is only fair to ask Mr. Costas to apologize on air during prime
evening hours and in writing,'' the Xinhua news agency quoted Chen as
saying. 

But Markey said he considered the matter resolved. 




AP-NY-08-22-96 1256EDT 
---------------------------------------------------------------------


BEIJING (AP) -- NBC has apologized to Chinese groups upset by critical
comments made by announcer Bob Costas during the opening ceremonies of the
Atlanta Olympics, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said today. 

China's state-run media and Foreign Ministry officials assailed Costas for
mentioning their nation's dismal human rights record and rampant copyright
piracy during the opening ceremonies. 

``Mr. Costas did not intend any disrespect to the People's Republic of
China or its citizens,'' Xinhua quoted Ed Markey, vice-president of NBC's
sports section, as saying in a brief letter. 

``We apologize for any resulting hurt feelings,'' said the letter,
addressed to Chen Kai, a chief representative of Chinese and
Chinese-American groups that wrote to NBC and published ads in U.S.
newspapers to protest. 

The apology appeared to have done little to mollify those offended by
Costas' comments, which were widely perceived in China as openly
anti-Chinese. 

``Any news agency in the world should respect and comply with the most
fundamental professional ethics and not produce reports which distort
facts,'' the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 

``It is hoped that NBC will draw lessons and make sure that there will be
no recurrence of things like that.'' 

Chen, a student at the University of California at Berkeley, complained
that the apology was not made in public and not made by Costas himself. 

``It is only fair to ask Mr. Costas to apologize on air during prime
evening hours and in writing,'' Xinhua quoted Chen as saying. 

AP-NY-08-22-96 0627EDT 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

NEW YORK (AP) -- NBC apologized to Chinese groups for Bob Costas' mention
of China's human rights record -- and other sources of U.S.-Chinese
tensions -- during the Olympic opening ceremonies. 

China's state-run media and Foreign Ministry officials had criticized the
sportscaster for the remarks, made during the July 19 broadcast. 

``We wanted to make it clear that we didn't intend to hurt their
feelings,'' Ed Markey, an NBC Sports vice president, said Thursday. 

According to an NBC transcript, Costas said: ``Every economic power
including the United States wants to tap into that huge potential market,
but of course there are problems with human rights, property rights
disputes, the threat posed to Taiwan.'' 

Costas went on to speak of China's athletic achievements and suspicions
that performance-enhancing drugs accounted for some of them. 

In a letter Tuesday, Markey wrote, ``Mr. Costas did not intend any
disrespect to the People's Republic of China or its citizens.'' The letter
was in response to Chen Kai, a representative of Chinese and
Chinese-American groups that wrote to NBC and published ads in U.S.
newspapers to protest Costas' commentary. 

Markey's letter said ``the comments were not based on NBC beliefs. Nobody
at NBC ever intends to offend anyone.'' 

In an interview, Markey said the apology wasn't meant as a retraction of
what Costas said. ``This was pertinent, factual information,'' he said. 

Costas was on vacation and unavailable for comment, Markey said. 

In Beijing, the apology appeared to do little to mollify those offended by
Costas' comments, which were widely perceived in China as openly
anti-Chinese. 

``Any news agency in the world should respect and comply with the most
fundamental professional ethics and not produce reports which distort
facts,'' the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. ``It is hoped that NBC
will draw lessons and make sure that there will be no recurrence of things
like that.'' 

Chen, a student at the University of California at Berkeley, complained
that the apology was not made on prime-time TV by Costas himself. 

General Electric Co., NBC's parent, is one of the largest foreign
industrial enterprises in China, with hundreds of millions of dollars
invested in areas such as lighting, plastics and medical equipment. GE
also is a leading supplier of locomotives and power generation machinery
to the Chinese. 

Asked whether GE's corporate interests were taken into consideration in
issuing the apology, Markey said, ``Not as far as I was concerned.'' 

GE spokesman Bruce Bunch said: ``It's an NBC matter that was handled by
NBC.'' 

AP-NY-08-22-96 1607EDT 
