Kai Chen
1133-D 6th Street, #38
Albany, CA  94710
(510) 526-0243 (night & fax)
(510) 642-1010 (day)
Kai@eecs.berkeley.edu
http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/~kai

August 19, 1996

Mr. Ed Markey, VP
NBC Sports Press
30 Rockfeller Plaza
New York, NY  10112
(212) 664-2014

Dear Mr. Markey:

		I represent over 70,000 Chinese or Chinese Americans who are
members of 70 organizations, 300 businesses, as well as 5,000 individuals. 
Through this letter I would like to register our strong protest against
Mr. Bob Costas's statements as a commentator for NBC Sports on the
occasion of the Centennial Olympic Games.  We feel that Mr. Costas
grievously injured the feelings of the Chinese Olympic athletes and their
supporters. 
 
	At the Opening Ceremony, while absolutely majority of other
participating countries were greeted with positive comments, Team China
received political attacks and unsubstantiated accusations made by NBC's
commentator Bob Costas.  Costas told NBC's viewers, who were a captive
audience of the monopolized Olympic coverage, that China has "problems
with human rights, copyright disputes, and the threats posed to Taiwan". 
Why were Chinese athletes singled out?  Why weren't they treated with the
equal respect in front of the world?  Chinese athletes have nothing to do
with either human rights problems or copyright disputes.  Nor are they
responsible for the China-Taiwan relationship.  More importantly, the
Olympic Games is not only a sports event, it is also an event to promote
mutual respect and unity of people everywhere.  It is not an appropriate
forum to magnify the political and governmental differences between the
host country and a participating country.  In this context, Bob Costas'
comments clearly exhibited his bias against and prejudice towards China
and Chinese athletes.  Such biased and prejudiced comments can only stir
hostilities between the people of the two great nations: China and USA. 

	Mr. Costas went on and spoke about the "suspicions" that Chinese
athletes, especially track athletes and female swimmers, were "possibly"
using performance-enhancing drugs.  He made frequent reference to the
"suspicions"  of drug use by Chinese athletes throughout the coverage of
the Olympic Games.  But the truth of the matter is that only a few Chinese
athletes in the past have tested positive for the banned drugs.  In fact,
it is the American team that tops the list of such offenders in the
Olympic Games ever since the drug test was started in 1968.  Because Team
China was the only team targeted by Mr. Costas, it once again exhibits his
bias against and prejudice toward Chinese athletes. 

	The Chinese female swimming team won a total of 6 medals and 2
silvers.  Mr.  Costas commented on this "disappointing performance,"
implying that this might mean the Chinese swimmers had been taking
performance-enhancing drugs in the past, but stopped taking them prior to
this Olympics.  Mr. Costas never substantiated his comments by any
evidence.  The fact of the matter is that none of the Chinese swimmers at
this event, male or female, have ever tested positive before, nor have any
track athletes.  At the same time, not once did the disappointing
performance of American swimmer Janet Evans and others elicit similar
inference.  One of the most significant factors that caused the
"disappointing performance" could be the five false alarms at Team China's
dormitories (the last one was at about 2:00 a.m.) on the very first day of
the keenly contested swimming competition. 

As a professional sport commentator, Mr. Costas has the duty to refrain
from making unsubstantiated comments and accusations on a national
network.  NBC has the duty to cover the Olympic Games in a fair and
professional manner.  Allowing Mr. Costas to single out China and Chinese
athletes means that NBC has failed to meet this standard.  Reporting based
on rumors, gossip, and fabrications degrades NBC from a major network to
the level of grocery store tabloid. 

We therefore demand an immediate public retraction by Mr. Costas or NBC of
the biased and unsubstantiated statements.  We further demand an immediate
public apology from Mr. Costas or NBC. Please be advised that we will
place an advertisement in the New York Times and other major newspapers if
you do not respond our demands by 5PM, pacific time, August 24, 1996.  We
will continue our campaign to inform the public as to Mr. Costas's and
NBC's inappropriate, unprofessional and irresponsible behavior. 

Please contact Ms. Wei Qun E at (408) 286-6012 or Mr. Kai Chen at (510) 
526-0243 to discuss this matter. 

							Sincerely,
Kai Chen				


Headquarter Chairman
Protesting NBC Campaign


cc: Mr. Dick 


