Hi, all

FYI, in order to enhance the campaign coordination to gave a final 
push on NBC, a new worldwide headquarter including 11 committee 
members nation wide has been founded today. 

Lee, Shawn, Zhenyu, Zhiyu and other folks in the east coast have done a
marvelous job in raising fund for NYT AD. This AD is the biggest bargin
chip we have for our next round negotiation with NBC.

BCSSA's involvement as an overal organizing and leading center ended 
days ago when Strategy and Negotiating Committee founded.  BCSSA committee 
members, Yi Li, Zhiyu, Naxin, Jiaxnun, Xinhui, Weiguang, Qing, Zhihua, Tim
and Hui all have been working very hard to initiate and successfully
pulled-through BOTH the protesting letter AND donation for AD campaign. 

Let's give all of them big applause.

>From now on, this 11-people headquarter officially takes over the leadership 
of the campaign.

Headquarter Members:
1. Yi Li (BCSSA Webmaster, initiated the BCSSA's original call for 
          a coordinated protesting letter campaign)
2. Student (Enginner, Washington Post AD main drafter and one of 
         the very few consultants BCSSA has been working closely);
3. Wei Qun E (Attoney, legal adviser and leader of many tasks);
4. Lee Zhang (Harvard, east coast NYT AD donation coordinator);
5. Yu Dechao (UCSF CSSA President, initiated the original call for an 
              organized efforts by 5 CSSA Orgs. in Bay Area and 
              BCSSA's first partner for the AD donation campaign)
6. Amy Zhang (Chinese AD main drafter, BCSSA contact person with NBC 
             before 8.13, current English News Media coordinator);
7. Shawn Dong (Webmaster and co-leader of east coast's fund rasing 
              for NYT AD)
8. Liu Jianmin (Assisted VP of Wells Fargo Bank)
9. Lin Jiang (National Lawrance Livermoore Lab).
10. Huang Lin (PhD, National Coordinator of CBS insident 2 years ago).
11. Kai Chen (General coordinator and representative so far)

Task Assignment:
        Chairman: Kai Chen
        Chief Negotiator: Wei Wun E/Kai Chen
        AD Donation Drive: Lee Zhang/Shawn Dong
        English News media Coordinator: Amy and Qing Zhang
        Web Master: Li/Shawn
        English AD drafter: Walter (on the committee list
                                   but no voting power)          
        English news speakwoman: Wei Qun / Amy

Any critical issues will be discussed and decided by this committee. 
If vote is necessary, 6 for 5 against means pass, vice versa.

The Headquarter will determine when/what to post on the NYT depending on 
the negotiation with NBC.  


Thank you.

-Kai

