Subject: Re: An Article on the World Street Journal Interactive Edition

To Mr. Pixley:

Please be assured that this is not a loaded question.  I've always 
been curious about how newspapers like the Wall Street Journal and
the New York Times pay their writers.  Would you care to let us
know?  The American news business is fascinating, and certainly
your answer will help many of us understand yet another piece of 
Americana.  Did the WSJ pay you by the word, or by article, and
how much did you get for the article below?   If you feel very
uncomfortable sharing that piece of information with all, you can 
email me and any request for confidentiality will be respected.

Regards,
Student

To Mr. Pixley: (continued)

With respect to the article itself, could you be so kind as to
very frankly and honestly let us know your feelings towards the 
Chinese students and scholars in their expressions of sentiment?
How did you get the "assignment" (if I may call it that, and
correct me if I'm wrong or that's not how things work) in the 
first place?  Also, do let us know your (a) motivation and (b) 
objectives in writing the article [below].

In reciprocity, here are some feedback and comments you requested. 

>
>
>The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition -- August 27, 1996
>
> Chinese Nationalists Rush the Net
>
> By THOMAS PIXLEY
>
> After the tragic events of 1989 in Tiananmen
> Square, many Chinese students in the United States
> looked to America as their model. Many Americans,
> seeing them speak out against Beijing and call out
> for democracy, assumed that the U.S. had found
> lifelong friends.
>
> Today, the tide has turned. Many Chinese students
> in the U.S. are angrily protesting the NBC
> television network's Olympic coverage and
> rethinking their once-positive opinions of the U.S.

I won't be as pessimistic as you are in defining what
"lifelong friends" means.  I value friends that dare
to disagree with me far more than "friends" that will
look at my face and only say what I like to hear.
Sycophants cannot be my friends, much less "lifelong
friends". 

Conversely, a true friend will not insist that 
his friends can only say "Yes" and never say "No". 
True friendship must be built on a basis of equality
and mutual respect, not one of master and servant.   

So, I think there is a philosophical, attitudinal, 
and/or value difference here, quite independent of 
cultural differences.  

If Americans believe that their "lifelong friends"
can only say "Yes" to them, then I feel sorry for
their friends, and even more so for the Americans.

I would view the protests as very healthy.  Why? 
Because that's democracy and free speech, right?
-- values that America and Americans supposedly 
treasure and defend around the world, not to mention 
domestically within their own borders.  Aren't you
glad that these Chinese students and scholars have
adopted "the American way"?  What they say being 
critical shouldn't matter when we are dealing with 
such lofty principles, should it?

Besides, don't you think NBC's Olympic coverage was
indeed setting a very bad example and precedent, as
also so-determined by those from other countries.
NBC and Costas, in their continued arrogance and
unrepentance, deserve a good dose of healthy criticism, 
if only for the good of their own edification.  Friends 
don't knowingly let friends do wrong [or drive drunk], 
yes? 

> What's more, through the Internet a committee of
> Chinese graduate students in engineering and the
> sciences at Harvard and the University of
> California at Berkeley has gathered more than 3,500
> e-mailed "signatures" to wage a cyberspace campaign
> against the television reporting on Team China. The
> committee has enlisted the support of 64 Chinese
> student, professional and social organizations,
> including the Chinese student and scholar
> associations at Stanford, Harvard, MIT, Berkeley,
> UCLA, Columbia and Princeton, and the Silicon
> Valley Chinese Engineer Association.

What's more, we also felt sorry for many non-Superpower
nations and teams, and their athletes, that were all so
nonchalantly denigrated by NBC and its chief commentator, 
Bob Costas.  In fact, our Washington Post AD alluded to
these victimized international guests, even though the 6" 
by 6" AD did not permit us to say much.  Could one really 
expect the Chinese students and scholars to condemn NBC's 
misconduct perpetrated on other aggrieved nations and 
their teams while ignoring what's happening to the Chinese 
team, the one that NBC targeted the most to foment public 
and worldwide prejudice against?  Wouldn't that be strange 
and incongruous to ignore the biggest victim?  If the
CSS don't do it, who will?

So what you observed was totally natural, and logical,
and right!

> The protesters, divided into coordinated but
> contentious Berkeley and Harvard factions,
> currently claim to represent more than 70,000
> individuals across the U.S. They have raised over
> $36,000 from supporters in the U.S., and as of Aug.
> 20 they have been led by a 10-member executive
> committee, including legal counsel.
>
> The protest and disenchantment has been amply
> communicated back to mainland China by means of
> e-mail and World Wide Web pages, and the
> protesters' activities have been reported on by
> China's official media outlets, adding to an
> already burgeoning anti-American nationalism there.

Whatever exchange of information across the Pacific
was a random, spontaneous and totally unplanned and 
uncoordinated affair, primarily via Web sites, and
without either the sender or recipient knowing one
another.  That's the nature of the Internet, fast,
open and impersonal.  
  
Certainly, protests against NBC and Bob Costas are not
and should not be wrongly equated with protests against 
America.  Indeed, I cringe at the suggestion that a 
bigoted NBC and Costas could be elevated to the status 
of, and be equated with, the nation of America itself.

In fact, NBC and Bob Costas would do well not to
practice bigotry and xenophobia, if only for their,
not to mention America's, sake and benefit.  Viewed
properly in the intended morally uplifting effect the 
protests are designed to induce in NBC and Bob Costas, 
the protests are salubrious to the entire American 
media, not just NBC and Costas, and labeling such 
justiable action as "anti-American" could not be 
further from the mark.  

Nor is there nationalism involved, since CSS rightly
find NBC and Costas' innuendo against many other 
foreign athletes equally abhorrent.  If anything,
NBC and Costas were knowingly engaged in chauvinistic 
nationalism by initiating and fueling the xenophobic 
atmosphere.  The wrongdoers are now falsely accusing 
their aggrieved victims to divert attention from the 
real issues, their own misconduct, and the injuries 
they caused.

> While the protest against NBC was at first
> apparently spontaneous, the criticism of the U.S.
> quickly fell in line with nationalist rhetoric
> current in mainland China.

That may be your perception, but it is certainly not
correct.  I and all the CSS I know didn't know, and 
still don't, and don't care, what the "nationalist 
rhetoric current in mainland China" was or is, even 
assuming that your allegation of its existence and 
your characterization were true, and the result of
objective and correct interpretations.  The truth is
that the Committe members simply communicated among 
themselves.  We did't even have time to read all the 
email messages between the various student individuals 
and student bodies, much less to find out what's going 
on in Mainland China.  The activities there may be 
just as spontaneous but we have no information on the
scale, degree of organization, or the individuals who
were leading there.

Indeed, the spontaneous nature of the U.S. protests 
provided no "falling in line" even among the various
student groups within the U.S., thereby refuting your 
speculation of a broader global coordination.  Your 
observation that the East and West coast groups broke 
into two factions is further evidence that there was
not any international coordination when such could
not even be achieved in the U.S., due to diversity and 
independence of opinions alone.  This is a grass-roots
movement in which all CSS members I know were already 
too busy as to keep abreast of whatever took place
outside the United States.   

You're dealing with very independent-thinking Chinese
students here.  They don't have to look outside of
their circles for direction or guidance.  Indeed, they
hold on to their individual views so independently 
that consenus was not at all easy when the views were
so diverse and varied, as you can readily confirm from
the voluminous emails you have been able to monitor.

> Commentary during Team China's entry at the Opening
> Ceremonies sparked the protest when NBC sports
> anchor Bob Costas reminded viewers of China's
> shortcomings: ". . .[T]here are problems with human
> rights, copyright disputes, and the threat posed to
> Taiwan," Mr. Costas said. He also made numerous
> references during the Games to previous steroid use
> by some Chinese women swimmers, and insinuated that
> the swim team's disappointing performance was due
> to strictly enforced testing and disqualification
> of several members.
>
> Interestingly, not a single Chinese student has
> chosen to point out that Mr. Costas' remarks,
> though biased, were accurate.

Accurate or not was not the real issue here.  The CSS 
protest against NBC and Costas for their innuendo that 
were certainly improper, ulterior and highly misleading, 
designed to create prejudice and hostility against the 
targeted individual athletes, international teams and 
foreign nations.

If Mr. Costas chose to broadcast about high crime
statistics and racial tensions and other irrelevant
facts about America during the Olympics, he would be
accurate, but the facts would be irrelevant and 
prejudicial to the Americans, the American Team, and
the American athletes, on such an important occasion,
and would reveal his ill will and bigotry -- attributes
that would disqualify him from his role.  Americans 
would have immediately clamored for Costas' resignation, 
and NBC would have promptly fired him the very first
day and issued a prompt and public apology to the 
American people.  But to NBC, Chinese are fair game.

What we are dealing here is network-sponsored bigotry,
and palpable racism and xenophobia, disseminated to 
the world in the guise of news reporting, but actually 
calculated to create worldwide prejudice and hostility 
against innocent athletes, their teams or the nations 
and peoples they represent.  This is not the spirit of
the Olympics.  This is not the proper behavior for a
world-class network that purports to play its assumed 
role of a worthy media host to the entire world. 

> Believing Mr. Costas had singled out their country
> for negative commentary, many Chinese viewers in
> the U.S. responded quickly. On July 19, Yang Cao, a
> Stanford Electrical Engineering Ph.D. candidate,
> posted an e-mail message to mainland Chinese
> students at Berkeley and Stanford entitled "NBC's
> Olympic Coverage-Bulls***!": "Did you notice the
> commentators' bad words when China team [was]
> coming into the stadium? And did you also [notice]
> that the large team of China got only a few seconds
> with some dirty words, even shorter than some small
> team? What is this s***! . . . Cheer for China!" A
> barrage of concurring posts ensued.
>
> Another post, widely circulated on Chinese student
> e-mail lists, wondered how Americans might react if
> a sports anchor for Beijing's Central China TV had
> said, "Here comes the United States, a
> self-proclaimed superpower interfering with other
> nations everywhere . . . But [it has] race
> problems, AIDS, child abuse, gun killing . . . ."
>
> On July 24 the Berkeley protesters posted an open
> letter to NBC on their Website condemning Mr.
> Costas for his "urge to ramble on about politics
> and spread rumors on one of the . . . countries,
> P.R. China." The letter declared, "We hereby
> strongly protest against Mr. Costas' irresponsible
> remarks and demand a public apology from Mr. Costas
> or NBC!" Since then, support for the movement has
> grown, and the protest committee is now in the
> midst of continuing fundraising for anti-NBC
> publicity. Announcements on e-mails indicate that
> the students enlisted the aid of the Chinese
> ambassador to the U.S. to push Chinese companies in
> the U.S. to contribute funds to the movement. China
> Eastern Airlines and the CEO of Chinese sports
> drink manufacturer Jianlibao USA have each already
> contributed $1,000 to the cause.

Rumors of government involvement, like your foregoing
speculation and allegation that what the CSS did here 
"fell in line" with what happened inside China, were
just that, rich imagination, and could not withstand 
objective factual scrutiny. 

This has been a grass-roots effort and money came in in 
small bills, with rare exceptions that were nontheless
tiny amounts when compared to the price of American
political fund-raising dinners for high government 
office.  The corporations that donated were private
business entities, and would have raised absolutely
no eye brows, if they were American.  For example,
the American tobacco company, Phillip Morris, donated 
millions of dollars to the Republic party, and nobody 
felt it was even very interesting.  So what's $1,000?  
In fact the total amount of money raised (under 
$50,000) was tiny, compared to any American political 
campaign. Nothing could be more grass roots, and the
facts and figures speak for themselves.

There are always those who like to insinuate that
powerful, wealthy entities are behind the spontaneous
student protests.  Unfortunately for them, the facts
simply expose the insinuations as false and raise
questions about the motives of the rumor-mongers.

> On Aug. 14, the students published an ad in the
> Washington Post that accused NBC and Mr. Costas of
> "ignominious prejudice and inhospitality" and of
> making "hostile comments," and demands an apology.
> According to the students, NBC's Vice President for
> Sports Press Ed Markey had urged the group to
> cancel the Post advertisement, and Mr. Costas has
> said that he is sorry that his comments were
> "misinterpreted." On Aug. 20, Mr. Markey sent a
> private letter to the executive committee's chief
> negotiator Wei Qun E, in which he wrote, "Mr.
> Costas did not intend any disrespect to the
> People's Republic of China or its citizens. . . .
> We apologize for any resulting hurt feelings and we
> sincerely hope this puts the matter to rest." The
> committee rejected this apology and is now in the
> process of fundraising for another ad in the New
> York Times that they intend to publish unless NBC
> and Mr. Costas make an "on air and [in] print, full
> public apology."
>
> The anger and disappointment at NBC's performance
> reflect a heightened nationalism among many Chinese
> students. 

I don't think there is a "heightened nationalism" 
among many Chinese students.  As I stated earlier,
any chauvinistic nationalism arose from the side of 
NBC and Costas who initiated and fueled the xenophobia.
The CSS, as victims, were merely responding to NBC and 
Costas' repeated malicious bigotry and insinuation 
against many international athletes and Team China in 
particular.  

> An Internet message e-mailed by Wang
> Rong, a Ph.D. candidate in Educational
> Administration at U.C. Berkeley, was representative
> of the emotions felt by the students. "Now that the
> Chinese era is descending," she said, "it is just a
> natural rule that some tiny animals feel pathetic
> in front of such an earthshaking change. Maybe
> because it is only a beginning and so some of them
> don't know how to behave. . . . Any cool-minded
> politician should know, as some of them have, that
> it is not good to mess up with [the] Chinese
> student and scholar community in the U.S. now and
> in the future. . . . [B]ecause these people before
> anyone knows it will become leaders in every field
> in China. . . ."

Rong was expressing his/her own personal views of that
moment, an act of free speech so much admired and 
respected in a true democracy.  Don't be surprised that 
emotions can run high among the victims and wrongfully 
aggrieved and only underscore the egregiousness of the
wrongs.  What Rong said was nothing, compared to the 
repeated malicious injuries that NBC and Costas purposely 
caused with their barrage of innuendo and misleading 
insinuations, which are still ongoing via talk shows, 
for instance.   

Besides, NBC and Costas and their ilk should meditate
on Rong's feelings and views, which were not totally
without cause.  

> To be sure, the protesting students did not taunt
> the U.S. and Atlanta authorities after the July 27
> pipe-bomb explosion, limiting their posts to
> expressions of surprise. Nor have they used the
> various inadequacies of the Atlanta games to
> revisit American claims that China was unqualified
> to host the 2000 Olympics.

There is a huge difference between the inadequacies
of facilities and intentional racism or bigotry.  The 
CSS did not exploit the inadequacies in Atlanta 
because, unlike NBC and Costas, they never did harbor
ill will, bigotry, nationalism, or xenophobia, but were 
simply reacting to them as aggrieved victims.  CSS 
recognize how powerful and damaging a giant propaganda 
machine like NBC can be when it chooses to practise 
selective demagogy in the guise of hosting and reporting 
a most important and apolitical global event meant to 
foster worldwide peace and friendship.

> But despite this restraint, even a casual read
> through the posts filling mainland Chinese student
> e-mail lists at universities across the U.S.
> strongly suggests that whatever trust or confidence
> many of these students have in America is in fact
> tenuous indeed. While the immediate cause is
> attributable to NBC, the protests suggest that many
> Chinese intellectuals and students are hardly
> unquestioning believers in American-style
> democracy. 

I suppose you are not suggesting that the CSS should
not freely express their views among themselves, do
you?  Trust or confidence has to be earned, not 
demanded.  If Chinese intellectuals and students were
unquestioning believers in American-style democracy,
they would indeed be unworthy of their education.
Rightly, CSS should come to America as independent
seekers of truth, to learn, observe and experience 
first-hand for themselves, without blind worship of
things American.  

There is an unfortunate belief in some quarters that 
the American system is not only best, but virtually
perfect. Such a belief has no factual basis.  In fact,
a true democracy should be able to withstand doubts of 
its adequacies without thereby suffering undue dismay 
or alarm.  That, I submit, is not quite what's being 
seen here.

> On the contrary, the skepticism they
> once showed toward the leadership in Beijing is now
> being directed at the U.S., and the slightest
> provocation can rekindle their passionate
> allegiances to China. Not all of them will
> necessarily be America's friends when they return
> home.

I would not consider the provocation slight.  If a
wrongdoer further tries too belittle the pain and
suffering of his/her victims, as NBC and Costas are
now trying to do to mislead the public, it only 
further underscores their underlying prejudice and 
ill will.

Nor would I automatically view the perfectly normal 
and expected protests against bigotry and racism in 
a political or negative light.  If NBC and Costas' 
remarks were directed at Blacks, and yet steadfastly 
refused to apologize, I think the resultant backlash 
would have been far greater.  To equate such normal 
and righteous grass-roots opposition as "passionate 
allegiances to China" is to look through politically 
colored glasses and miss the truth and reality by a 
wide margin. 
 
Friendship, like respect, must be earned.   It is 
unrealistic to expect all Chinese students to return 
home enamored with America.  On the other hand, it's
a mistake to think that just because a Chinese student
had some disagreement with some individual or entity 
while in America, he or she must perforce not be a 
friend.

Certainly, if the CSS allow you, a typical American of 
no special relationship to the members, free access to 
their private email nets, such that you can read their 
most private discussions, including delicate Committee 
deliberatins, like an open book, they cannot possibly 
be too unfriendly or anti-American, can they?  I just 
hope Americans understand a victim's just repugnance 
against large-scale, sugar-coated bigotry for what it 
is.  Otherwise, the insistent mis-characterization may 
well be the unfortunate result of what is known as
psychological projection.

Given the above facts and truth now revealed, would you
have written the Wall Street article differently ?  In 
light of the above feedback, do you now feel, as I do, 
that a clarifying follow-up on your article would be 
constructive and warranted, since your article may well 
be deemed very authoritative, given your title and 
position, and cause some misunderstanding?  Please kindly
let us know of your answers to the above questions, as
well as whatever decisions you make that may be relevant 
to the above questions and concerns.  

Thanks in advance.


Regards,
Student

> ----------------------------------------------------
> Mr. Pixley is program officer at Stanford
> University's Asia/Pacific Research Center, where he
> researches Chinese popular culture.
