The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition -- August 27, 1996

 Chinese Nationalists Rush the Net

 By THOMAS PIXLEY

 After the tragic events of 1989 in Tiananmen
 Square, many Chinese students in the United States
 looked to America as their model. Many Americans,
 seeing them speak out against Beijing and call out
 for democracy, assumed that the U.S. had found
 lifelong friends.

 Today, the tide has turned. Many Chinese students
 in the U.S. are angrily protesting the NBC
 television network's Olympic coverage and
 rethinking their once-positive opinions of the U.S.
 What's more, through the Internet a committee of
 Chinese graduate students in engineering and the
 sciences at Harvard and the University of
 California at Berkeley has gathered more than 3,500
 e-mailed "signatures" to wage a cyberspace campaign
 against the television reporting on Team China. The
 committee has enlisted the support of 64 Chinese
 student, professional and social organizations,
 including the Chinese student and scholar
 associations at Stanford, Harvard, MIT, Berkeley,
 UCLA, Columbia and Princeton, and the Silicon
 Valley Chinese Engineer Association.

 The protesters, divided into coordinated but
 contentious Berkeley and Harvard factions,
 currently claim to represent more than 70,000
 individuals across the U.S. They have raised over
 $36,000 from supporters in the U.S., and as of Aug.
 20 they have been led by a 10-member executive
 committee, including legal counsel.

 The protest and disenchantment has been amply
 communicated back to mainland China by means of
 e-mail and World Wide Web pages, and the
 protesters' activities have been reported on by
 China's official media outlets, adding to an
 already burgeoning anti-American nationalism there.
 While the protest against NBC was at first
 apparently spontaneous, the criticism of the U.S.
 quickly fell in line with nationalist rhetoric
 current in mainland China.

 Commentary during Team China's entry at the Opening
 Ceremonies sparked the protest when NBC sports
 anchor Bob Costas reminded viewers of China's
 shortcomings: ". . .[T]here are problems with human
 rights, copyright disputes, and the threat posed to
 Taiwan," Mr. Costas said. He also made numerous
 references during the Games to previous steroid use
 by some Chinese women swimmers, and insinuated that
 the swim team's disappointing performance was due
 to strictly enforced testing and disqualification
 of several members.

 Interestingly, not a single Chinese student has
 chosen to point out that Mr. Costas' remarks,
 though biased, were accurate.

 Believing Mr. Costas had singled out their country
 for negative commentary, many Chinese viewers in
 the U.S. responded quickly. On July 19, Yang Cao, a
 Stanford Electrical Engineering Ph.D. candidate,
 posted an e-mail message to mainland Chinese
 students at Berkeley and Stanford entitled "NBC's
 Olympic Coverage-Bulls***!": "Did you notice the
 commentators' bad words when China team [was]
 coming into the stadium? And did you also [notice]
 that the large team of China got only a few seconds
 with some dirty words, even shorter than some small
 team? What is this s***! . . . Cheer for China!" A
 barrage of concurring posts ensued.

 Another post, widely circulated on Chinese student
 e-mail lists, wondered how Americans might react if
 a sports anchor for Beijing's Central China TV had
 said, "Here comes the United States, a
 self-proclaimed superpower interfering with other
 nations everywhere . . . But [it has] race
 problems, AIDS, child abuse, gun killing . . . ."

 On July 24 the Berkeley protesters posted an open
 letter to NBC on their Website condemning Mr.
 Costas for his "urge to ramble on about politics
 and spread rumors on one of the . . . countries,
 P.R. China." The letter declared, "We hereby
 strongly protest against Mr. Costas' irresponsible
 remarks and demand a public apology from Mr. Costas
 or NBC!" Since then, support for the movement has
 grown, and the protest committee is now in the
 midst of continuing fundraising for anti-NBC
 publicity. Announcements on e-mails indicate that
 the students enlisted the aid of the Chinese
 ambassador to the U.S. to push Chinese companies in
 the U.S. to contribute funds to the movement. China
 Eastern Airlines and the CEO of Chinese sports
 drink manufacturer Jianlibao USA have each already
 contributed $1,000 to the cause.

 On Aug. 14, the students published an ad in the
 Washington Post that accused NBC and Mr. Costas of
 "ignominious prejudice and inhospitality" and of
 making "hostile comments," and demands an apology.
 According to the students, NBC's Vice President for
 Sports Press Ed Markey had urged the group to
 cancel the Post advertisement, and Mr. Costas has
 said that he is sorry that his comments were
 "misinterpreted." On Aug. 20, Mr. Markey sent a
 private letter to the executive committee's chief
 negotiator Wei Qun E, in which he wrote, "Mr.
 Costas did not intend any disrespect to the
 People's Republic of China or its citizens. . . .
 We apologize for any resulting hurt feelings and we
 sincerely hope this puts the matter to rest." The
 committee rejected this apology and is now in the
 process of fundraising for another ad in the New
 York Times that they intend to publish unless NBC
 and Mr. Costas make an "on air and [in] print, full
 public apology."

 The anger and disappointment at NBC's performance
 reflect a heightened nationalism among many Chinese
 students. An Internet message e-mailed by Wang
 Rong, a Ph.D. candidate in Educational
 Administration at U.C. Berkeley, was representative
 of the emotions felt by the students. "Now that the
 Chinese era is descending," she said, "it is just a
 natural rule that some tiny animals feel pathetic
 in front of such an earthshaking change. Maybe
 because it is only a beginning and so some of them
 don't know how to behave. . . . Any cool-minded
 politician should know, as some of them have, that
 it is not good to mess up with [the] Chinese
 student and scholar community in the U.S. now and
 in the future. . . . [B]ecause these people before
 anyone knows it will become leaders in every field
 in China. . . ."

 To be sure, the protesting students did not taunt
 the U.S. and Atlanta authorities after the July 27
 pipe-bomb explosion, limiting their posts to
 expressions of surprise. Nor have they used the
 various inadequacies of the Atlanta games to
 revisit American claims that China was unqualified
 to host the 2000 Olympics.

 But despite this restraint, even a casual read
 through the posts filling mainland Chinese student
 e-mail lists at universities across the U.S.
 strongly suggests that whatever trust or confidence
 many of these students have in America is in fact
 tenuous indeed. While the immediate cause is
 attributable to NBC, the protests suggest that many
 Chinese intellectuals and students are hardly
 unquestioning believers in American-style
 democracy. On the contrary, the skepticism they
 once showed toward the leadership in Beijing is now
 being directed at the U.S., and the slightest
 provocation can rekindle their passionate
 allegiances to China. Not all of them will
 necessarily be America's friends when they return
 home.

 ----------------------------------------------------
 Mr. Pixley is program officer at Stanford
 University's Asia/Pacific Research Center, where he
 researches Chinese popular culture.
