The follwoing letter was addressed to ediotr of USA Today regarding its
twisted report on 9/3/96. The author Xiaoming Zhang is a  Ph.D. candidate
at MIT's Economics Dept currently lving in Seattle.

(Letter to editor of USA Today)
#####################################################
Date: Tue, 03 Sep 1996 21:27:25 EDT
From: xiaoming@MIT.EDU
To: editor@usatoday.com
Subject: Please don't distort the image of Chinese protesters.

Dear Editor,

As an ordinary Chinese living in the US, I find your news item entitled
"Chinese Protest" on Page 3C of Tuesday, September 3's USA Today seriously
distorted the truth about the Chinese protesting campaign against Bob
Costas of NBC. Your news report made the tens of thousands of Chinese
protesters look like a group of overbearing people backed by the Beijing
government, defending China's poor human rights record. There are three
important errors in your news report: first, your report made it appear
that the Chinese protesters did not think Bob Costas' mentioning of
"China's human rights record" was true.  Second, your report implied that
the protesting campaign was supported by the Chinese government by
mentioning China's state-run media and Foreign Ministry in thesame
context. Third, your report said that said that the Chinese "again" 
protested Costas' remarks after the NBC Sports issued an apology on Aug. 
22 without mentioning the fact that it was Mr. Costas' new remarks m!  ade
on Aug. 29 which provoked the Chinese renewed protests. 

These three critical distortion and omissions, if uncorrected, could
greatly damage the image of Chinese community in this country.  I urge you
to examine the following facts and publish an immediate correction to
control the damage made by your news report on the Chinese protesters (or
you can publish this letter). 

First, please note the fact that Mr. Costas appeared on "Tonight Show with
Jay Leno" on Aug. 29, claiming that NBC never intended to apologize. He
went on to deny any wrongdoing on his part, maintaining that his comments
made during the Olympic Games were "factual" and "pertinent". He also
suggested that the reason the Chinese protested against his comments was
due to their lack of understanding of the free media in the US. In
response to this new development, the Chinese protesters took out a new ad
in Sunday, September 1's New York Times. 

Second, it is very important to tell the American public that the Chinese
protesters do not dispute the facts that China has serious human rights
problems. As a matter of fact, many of the protesters were also
participants in the 1989 Tiananmen Square democratic movement and they are
continuing their efforts to improve human rights conditions in China and
to bring democracy to China. What the Chinese are protesting against is
Mr. Costas' selective use of facts to deliberately discriminate against
foreign athletes, including Chinese athletes. We all know that if a
restaurant separates customers to different seating areas solely based on
their skin-colors, or if a company treats its employees with different
policies solely based on their sexes, we call it racial or sexual
discrimination. Now what if some one treats people differently solely
based on their nationalities? Shouldn't it be called "national
discrimination"?  It is this "national discrimination" that the Chinese
are fighting against, because Mr. Cos tas has demonstrated a clear pattern
of discriminating against athletes from other nations in his numerous
comments made during the NBC's coverage of the

Olympic Games. Here are the facts:

1) On Tuesday, July 23, after America's Amy ven Dyken won the gold in 100m
butterfly and China's Liu Limin won the silver, Costas said pointedly: 
"Amy ven Dyken took the gold, beating China's Liu Limin, whom by the way
is under heavy suspicion of using drugs..." (These remarks are based on my
recollection, they may be slightly different with Costas' exact words, but
they are very close.  You can check the tape). Is this remark "factual"
and "pertinent"? The fact is:  Liu Limin has never been tested positive
and is never under anyone's suspicion of drug-using except Mr. Costas'.
More tellingly, Bob Costas never mentioned a single word about the fact
that Angel Martin, the bronze medal winner in the same event, had been
tested positive for using stimulants a few years ago and was thus
disqualified to compete in three individual events in the 1992 Olympic
Games by Team USA. Here we see a clear pattern of selective use of facts
to attack foreign athletes: slandering an innocent Ch!  inese athlete
based on no facts wh ile keeping silence about the past drug-using record
of an American athlete. I would like to ask: is it not national
discrimination?! 

2) Costas repeatedly made inferences that the "once-dominant" Chinese
swimmers' below-expectation performance was drug-related.  He said: "Now
they come here, the IOC made a big deal over how much more severe the
drug-testing is going to be, how much more closely they are watching it,
how much more sophisticated the testing apparatus is, and perhaps, perhaps
this has had an effect on the Chinese performance." (these are his exact
words). It is clear from this remark that there are no facts at all, the
only thing Mr. Costas relied on was "inference."  But while he repeatedly
made such damaging "inference" on Chinese swimmers, he never applied the
same inference on the "once dominant" Janet Evens and other prominent
American swimmers' disappointing performances in Atlanta. I would like to
ask: is it not national discrimination?! 

3) Mr. Costas and other NBC commentators spread rumors that Machelle
Smith's big improvement in her performance was drug-related. Once again
their comments were solely based on the inference that it is impossible
for her to improve so much without using-drugs.  However, Costas never
applied the same kind of inference on the surprisingly above-expectation
performances of so many American teenage female swimmers. I would like to
ask: is it not national discrimination?! 

4) Mr. Costas' comments on China's human rights condition during the
Olympic opening ceremony also falls into this pattern of national
discrimination.  As I said earlier, no one is disputing the facts that
China has serious human rights problems. However, China is certainly not
the only country with poor human rights record, neither does China have
the worst human rights record.  There are many other countries in the
world that have much worse human rights records than China's.  However,
during the entire "Parade of Nations" at the Olympic opening ceremony,
China was the only country being singled out by Mr.  Costas and condemned
for human rights violations. If Mr. Costas was indeed concerned about the
human rights issue, why did not he also discuss the racial injustice or
the serious homelessness problem in the United States while Team USA was
marching into the stadium? Aren't these problems also "factual" and
"pertinent"?! Here, once again, we see the same pattern of selectiv!  e
use of facts to discriminate aga inst foreign athletes in Mr. Costas'
comments. I would like to ask once more:  is it not national
discrimination?! 

During his interview with Jay Leno on Aug. 29, Mr. Costas tried to cover
up his discrimination against Chinese athletes by mentioning the fact that
he praised Fu Minxia, Li Xiaoshang, and Le Jinyi during the Olympic Games. 
But his argument is really a poor one. Any one knows that just because a
person praised Michael Jordan does not mean he or she can turn around and
discriminate against other black people without being punished. 

The third point I would like to call your attention is that the Chinese
protesting campaign has nothing to do with the Chinese government. As a
participant of the protest myself from the start, I know it is an entirely
spontaneous movement sparked by Bob Costas' discriminatory behavior
towards foreign athletes. The campaign has neither received a penny from
the Chinese government, nor are there any contacts between the protesters
and the Chinese government. If any one wants to see the proof, please
visit the World Wide Web site set up by the protesting coordinators
(http://qing.ucdavis.edu:8888/Donation/index.html). You will see the names
of thousands of ordinary individuals and the amounts of money each of them
donated for the protest campaign. You will also see the history of the
discussions and the debates among the Chinese protesters. 

Dear Editor, I would like to ask you to correct the serious mistakes you
made in the news item I am referring to so that the American public can
understand the true objective of the Chinese protesting. I would also like
to appeal to you and through you to the American public to help us Chinese
fight against Mr.  Costas' discriminatory behavior. Why should the
American public care about this? Dr. Martin Luther King once said,
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Like many American
people, you might have not felt the painful feelings of those who were
treated unfairly by NBC and Mr. Costas.  But your reactions toward this
kind of behavior of treating people from another country unfairly will
have profound effects on the American society. If today we accept Mr.
Costas' discriminatory behavior against people from other countries,
tomorrow we will find it also acceptable for treating people from another
state, another city, another school, or even another family !  unfairly.
This is why the we are here to protest these unjustifiable behaviors, and
this is why every American has the responsibility to do the same thing. 

Sincerely yours,

Xiaoming Zhang 
Bellevue, Washington 
Ph.D. candidate at MIT
