Updated English media coverage:

        The Post and Courier, a newspaper from Charlston, South Carolina,
covered the event of Washington Post AD on August 22 on page D4.

        Chincago Sun-Times on Agust 22 published a story in its Sports
section, page 2, under the subtitle "NBC Apologizes to Chinese Groups."

        Newsday, a newspaper from Melville, New York, mentioned NBC'c
apology on page A12 under the title "Flash! The Latest Entertainment News
and More."

        Los Angeles Times on August 23 covered NBC's apology in the
Sports section, page C2.

        New York Times on August 23 carried a story on page B8 under the
title "Sports People: Olympics; NBC Apologizes to China."

        Hong Kong's "Da Gong Bao" on August 23 carried a story of NBC's
apology in International News section.  You may download the Chinese text
from the web site: http://www.takungpao.com/19960823/gb/ym10.htm

	Lian He Zao Bao, a newspaper published in Singapore, on August 24 
carried Da Gong Bao's story.  You may download it from 
http://www.asia1.com.sg/zaobao/pages/gj0046.html in International News 
section.

	On August 23, both People's Daily and Overseas Edition reported 
NBC's apology.

	Sing Tao Daily News (West Coast edition) carried a story titled
China Foreign Ministry Gives NBC a Lesson" in Bay Area News section.

	There are numerous English newspapers reporting NBC's apology on 
August 23:

	The Hollywood Report.

	The Atlanta Journal, page 4D, subtitle: NBC to China: "Sorry".

	The Boston Herald, page 41, subtitle: Apology.

	Chicago Tribune, Sports section, page 4, subtitle: Sorry, But...

	The Columbus Dispatch (Columbus, OH), page 2E, subtitle: NBC 
apologizes for Comments about Chinese.

	Daily News (NY), page 115, subtitle: NBC Issues Apology for 
Costas Remarks.

	The Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville, FL), page C1, subtitle: 
NBC: We're Sorry.

	The Fresno Bee, page D3, subtitle: NBC Apoligizes to Chinese.

	"NBC apologizes for Costas' remarks - Olympic commentator's 
words offended China" by the Associated Press was reprinted on 
"Centre Daily Times," one of the majoy newspapers serving the Communities 
of Central Pennsylvania.
