FROM: Kai Chen
TO: All 
SUBJECT: Members of Negotiating and Strategic Planning committees
DATE: 9/15/96, Thus., 3:00PM


Since most people on the net don't know each other, but many have done
decent works or possess fine talents that we highly need to achieve the 
final goals of this united efforts, I, on behalf of the 70,000 people 
worldwide who endorsed and donated for this campaign against NBC, 
hereby take the honor to nominate 11 committee members for the negotiating 
and strategic planning committees. (For now, same group of people serve on 
both committees).  

Committee members I would like to nominate are:

Yi Li (BCSSA Webmaster, initiating the BCSSA's original call with Kai)
Student (English AD main drafter and one of the few consultants Kai has 
        been working with closely); 
Wei Qun (Attoney, legal adviser and ..... many more);
Lee Zhang (Harvard, east coast NYT AD donation coordinator); 
Yu Dechao (UCSF CSSA President, CO-caller with BCSSA for AD donation); 
Amy Zhang (Chinese AD main drafter, BCSSA contact person with NBC 
          before NBC's VP jumped in to Kai Chen for negotiation) 
Shawn  (Webmaster and co-leader of east coast's fund rasing for NYT AD)
Liu Jianmin (VP of Wells Fargo Bank, experienced movement leader)
j_lapsv from National Lawrance Livermoore Lab.
Kai Chen (BCSSA Prez, current World Wide Gen. Coordinator and representative 
          for the activity).
        (one more, either Jiang Tao or Tsin (?) that Harrison knows, I am sorry
        I lost track of your emails and full names. Pls. let us know if you
         feel strongly to serve)
                
I know more netters on the list like to serve on the committee. We greatly
appreciate your past and continuous contribution. But let's keep the size
of the committees relatively small and commandable because many times, a quick,
effective reponse is reuired for the critical moment.  I definitely do not
mean to close the committee entering/outting process for goods. 2 committees
may graduately to develop and split therefore more people may be needed later. 

I will notify all my work to this committee and try to copy to BCSSA executive
committee (12 members) and helpers' list (another 10 or so). 


Thank you and welcome on board. It is a great honor to work with so talented
people as you are.
 
I will report all my work to the committee and try to copy to BCSSA executive
committee (12 members) and helpers' list (another 10 or so).

Let's keep the good work.

Thanks,
-Kai

