TO: ALL
FROM: Kai Chen, General Organizer and Representative
SUBJECT: BCSSA's Update#4 on NBC Issue 

DATE and TIME: 4:20AM Pacific time, Aug. 16, 96, Friday


In order to realize our original and consistent goal of the whole campaign,
i.e., to pressure NBC to publicly apologize, we have achieved the following 
for the past 2 days:
 

1) 8.15.96: "USA Today" carries a story about our Washington Post AD. 
   We have attracted the main English news media's attention.    
   (scan file: http://euler.berkeley.edu/~lyi/dBCSSA/progress.html)

2) 8.14.96: immediately after NBC's Sports Press VP saw the AD on Washington Post
   as scheduled after Kai Chen's rejection of NBC's offer, NBC SP VP sent another
   letter to Kai Chen in 9AM in the morning requesting new round of talks to 
   "resolve the situation".  

3) 8.13.96-8.14.96: major Chinese news media across north America 
   (Chuan2 Xun4 TV of NY, CH26 of SF, commercial radio of LA, Chinese Radio in Toronto, 
   AM 1450 Radio of SF and World Journal have reported the news that NBC's 
   Sports Press VP's offer to start writing a letter to the protesters 
   in exchange their cancelation of the scheduled Washington Post AD 
   was rejected by the campaign's general organizer and representative,
   Kai Chen, after 1.5 hours' intense negotiation between the 2 parties and consulting
   with the Washington Post.
   (scan files: http://euler.berkeley.edu/~lyi/dBCSSA/protestNBC.html)

4) 8.14.96: Numerous Americans called Kai Chen after the AD appeared on Washington Post to
   express supports and interests. Some requested further information about Bob's 
   comments.
   	(scan file of Washington Post AD: 
    	http://euler.berkeley.edu/~lyi/dBCSSA/protestNBC.html)

5) In response to the NBC's dramatic softening under the pressure of our 
   Washington Post AD and NBC's offer to negotiate, Kai Chen has called for a 
   formation of a 10 people committee for negotiating and strategic planning. 
   The 10 people are nominated based on their significant contribution to the campaign or 
   have experience in handling more sophisticated and complicated situations like this. 
   For your info., these people are:
 	1. Yi Li (BCSSA Webmaster, initiating the BCSSA's very first original call 
                 for coordinated protesting letter campaign)
	2. Student (English AD main drafter and one of the few consultants Kai Chen has
                   been working very closely);
	3. Wei Qun (Attoney, legal adviser and leader of many tasks);
	4. Lee Zhang (Harvard, east coast NYT AD donation coordinator);
	5. Yu Dechao (UCSF CSSA President, initiating the original call for an coordinated 
               	     and organized efforts by 5 CSSA Orgs. in Bay Area for 
                     protesting campaign and BCSSA's first partner for the AD donation 
                     campaign) 
	6. Amy Zhang (Chinese AD main drafter, BCSSA contact person with NBC before 
                     NBC's VP jumped into Kai Chen for negotiation on 8.13)
	7. Shawn Dong (Webmaster and co-leader of east coast's fund rasing for NYT AD)
	8. Liu Jianmin (UC-Berkeley Alumni, experienced movement leader)
	9. Lin Jiang (from National Lawrance Livermoore Lab).
	10. Kai Chen (general organizer)

6) In order to handle the more complicated situation with better preparation, 
   Kai Chen has called for another supporting group of 15 volunteers to help the execution
   of policy/decisions dertermined by the negotiating and strategic committee. 
   These volunteers have offered excellent, sometimes critical help to the whole campaign.

7) Since the formation of the commitee on 8.13, following critical issues have been addressed:
   a. Negotiating stratefy (to be finalized)
   b. responding letter to NBC VP's call for new talks (finalized, to be fax in a few minutes)
   c. A list of demands we want to NBC to give to end this campaign (to be finalized by 
      Friday moring).
   d. Appointed two English coordinators: Amy and Qing Zhang to prepare a package of 
      English articles aboout NBC's Olympic coverage and our AD/protesting letter to be faxed 
      to all major English News media for them to carry as the one does on USA Today. The 
      purpose is to publicize the issue therefore more pressure can be put on NBC.
   e. A Statement to English news media has been drafted and faxed to both English and Chinese 
      news media stating our present stand.  	

8) Total amount of fund raised so far has exceeded $20,000, thanks to the East coast fund raisers (Lee, Shawn, etc)'s great efforts.  
   Up to now, several hundred checks have been arrived in BCSSA and registration of 
   each donar's name, amount, email/association, have been on going for a week. All the info.
   will be posted on the WWW.

For more info., please visit the updated web site (pls. note that this site is not available 
on each Sat.  afternoon because of system backup):
	http://euler.berkeley.edu/~lyi/dBCSSA/protestNBC.html

A few personal comments:
	* I am very proud of the newly formed Strategic Planning and Negociating Committee.
          I feel very honored to work with these so talented people.
          The committee has been extremely productive and coorperative.  
        * Your support is the only reason that we can achieve this much in 3 weeks. 
        * My personal belief: it takes courage and guts to yield and pay respect. Please practice.

